things special for the recognition and I suppose I
was told that because I supported them and so forth
and believed in them, which I did. Now, they always
at home football games, where else did they
normally appear? The Fat Stock Show in Houston and
they'd go to the Battle of the Flowers in San
Antonio and several times to the Stock Show in
Houston, I mean in Fort Worth. And of course the
Corps trips. Did they go to all Corps trips? Yes.
And they, now they were not always allowed in to,
you know, we had trouble even getting them in the
stadium down here because they were tearing up the
track, and we had to put them in booties. And that
was a hassle, and we did it, and they did it. But they
just go all over the place. I know one year, one of my
captains, Captain Jim Holland, and his wife were
the Army people that worked with him a lot. His wife
was an equestrian. Still is. My other divorce now
with Jim. Jim and his wife did a lot for him. And Jim
came to me one time and said, a lot of them want to
take a trail ride this summer. And so about 15 of
them rode down into, almost down into Brownfield.
A 15-day trip. And of course, I let him go. That's a
duty trip for him. And they had a good time on that
one. They had Aggies all along the way that fed them
and put them up and took care of the horses. They
engineered that thing. What
were the requirements, as far as you were aware,
for a student to be in the Mounted Cavalry? Well,
first of all, when I was there, it was the first two
things. You could not be a commander or an RV. Not
that I had anything against them. It was just that I
thought they thought. Could you be a fish? Could a
freshman? Oh, we are sophomores. Sophomores. And
the sophomores could not then and don't now ride. I
mean, I'm sure they ride around out there, but
they're not in the parade or anything like that.
And only seniors in the formal appearance of the
cow. I don't think that changed yet. I think it's
still that way. The juniors are, you know,
training for it, but they don't get Could they be in
any branch? Oh, yes. Any or none. Just want to be in
and they don't screen them or anything like that.
If you want to be in the cow, you can be in the cow. You
just have to live up to these rules and they spent a
lot of time at it. How did they come up with the
official I've often wondered, why is it called
Mounted Cavalry? There's no other cavalry except
Mounted, is there? Well, I don't know. Well, I
don't know of any, but I guess that's just a... But
isn't that the official name? Yeah. Parsons
Mounted Cavalry? Back then, the cavalry was in
tanks and so forth. Of course, when they were here,
they were mounted back in the old days. But... And
we still are, as far as I know. We're the only
mounted unit in the United States, other than Fort
Hood. We're on Fort Riley now and a few other
military things. But I know Buck Henderson and I
and my wife, we used to go out with them and cut hay in
the summer and that sort of stuff. And my wife would
drive the tractor, and Buck and I would throw bales
up there. We spent a lot of time with them. We
enjoyed it. And one other thing or two I was
thinking about, we used to have cadets over the
house once in a while, as many as we could, but one
time we had a few of them out there, and just no
special ones, just some of the kids. Anyways, when
I was there, I made the comment, I was just talking
about my backyard, and I said, God, I wish I had one
of those benches like they have at the Grove. And I
should have never said that, because the next
morning, When we got up, there was a bench sitting
out in my backyard from the grove, and it had BQ 68 on
it, carved in there. I don't know if that was a fresh
carving or not, and I never asked, but I still got
that bench, and I never returned it. So I guess I
stole a bench from the university, but that taught
me then, don't ever say I wish around those guys,
because if they like you, you'll get it. Were there
any goofy things that ever happened to the
cavalry? Oh, I don't know of any. No jokes, no
pranks, no mistakes? Oh, well, yeah, I'm sure they
made lots of those. What about cleaning up behind?
Oh, well, that's a story. You know, they always,
whenever the scooper, now that wheelbarrow with
two U's on it is a brainchild of Buck Henderson and
Tom Parsons. We're the ones that said, hey, let's
get them to paint that thing and following the
horse and put the TU in there, and that's kind of an
insult to TU. So I guess I'm responsible for that,
and Burke Henderson and I. Yeah, the cleanup crew
are those freshmen? Those are sophomores.
Sophomores. Right. Freshmen, there are no
freshmen out there. And they have a, still have a
pretty, it's a pretty big, I think it was about $150
semester membership fee. I mean, you know, it's
pretty, it takes a lot of money to go to university
Picks up a good deal of it now. But the biggest
improvement there was when that little shed was
put out there with latrine facilities because it
was monstrous out there before. And also the
cavalry was the first unit or activity of the A&M to
allow a woman in it. They had a female rider before
the RVs or anybody else. And she was a good rider.
And I can't remember her name right now, but
anyway, she was the first. Were there any problems
with that as far as you know? Well, some of the guys
didn't like it too much, but they were accepted,
and she rode better than they did, according to
doing fritz and everything. Basically, the
members, as far as you recall, were these farm boys
or were they city? I would say more of them from the
city had never seen a horse in a ranch, although
there were a lot of them, both of them. But they did,
one year they wanted me to troop the land at the
parents' day parade and mounted. And I said, I'm
not a horseman, I'm really not. I'm kind of a little
scared of them. And they said, well, we'll put you
on one that you don't have to worry about. And I
said, OK, but I'll do it. I said, I'm uneasy on him,
and just keep that in mind. So anyway, I went out
there one day before the parade, the practice, and
they pulled up some steps over there for me. I said,
I ain't that old. If I can't get on him, I'm not going
to get on him. So I got on him, and I said, now what's
his name? He said, Dynamite. Dynamite? You put me
on dynamite? Well, it wasn't dynamite. They were
hassling me. But anyway, I did that the next day,
and it went off all right. And dynamite almost went
to sleep on me while I was going around. But never
again did they ask me to ride. And I wasn't
comfortable with it. But they still, my wife and I,
we go there. We've only missed a couple of times
going out there. And we have the honor of
presenting our saber. We buy sabers for the new
commander. And we've been doing that for about 25
years. And they're
real appreciative of some of them more than
others. But there was one other story. We were out
there shortly after Grace and I were married. And
she didn't know anything about it. Never been to
any. Didn't even know what it stood for. Anyway, I
was showing around out to Green, and one of the kids
was out there, and I introduced myself as Colonel
Parsons. I went, oh, are you related to the Colonel
Parsons that Sal named after him? I said, yeah,
that's me. He said, oh, I thought he was dead. So
anyway, they know me better than that now.
Describe what the band was in terms of the
commandant's concerns. Well, the band, first of
all, I didn't have much influence on the band other
than I'm responsible for them being a battery and
artillery and infantry band. That's what it used
to be, and I got them to rename it. I had no problem
with anybody except one that was coming out of He
didn't like the idea of changing it. It was a room
band and a white band then. I just thought it more
core to go back to what it used to be. And the band has
always been rambunctious. And my senior year, My
unit was, I was an A-batter. We were on the bottom
stoop. I might have told you that yesterday. There
was a band on. The band had the top three, and that
was pretty high. They were just living. But I think
they were pretty much like they were then. And I see
in your days, it's coming up, all of the band was
Army? No. Oh, they were? Whoever. Oh, okay. Okay.
And compared to the rest of the Corps, how did the
band measure, compare in terms of their grades and
their military qualities and so forth? I don't
know much of a distinction. Some of the
top-ranking guys that I knew were in the band, and
of course they worked pretty hard, but in the
rollers industry, like the fish drill team, my
goodness, the things that happened to them and I'm
glad that that's controlled now. But cadets time
is really pretty busy and they all seem to adapt to
it. The band, the rest of the Corps, seemed to be an
anti-band most of the time, when they see that band
out there on that field.
Is part of that maybe envy, respect, admiration?
Well, I think, look at our Aggie band out there. I
think they get along well, but of course that band
drill field was not sacred ground I didn't even
know that after I left here. I was getting ready to
walk across it, and one day when Grace's son, you
know, we brought him to A&M, and he'd never been to
college. He was in the Navy, and we talked him into
coming in. He was a B-1 commander, and he said, oh,
don't step out there. And I said, why not? And they
were in that little hut there near there. He said,
man, I'll form you. Anyway, I don't go in the band
field anymore. We used to have, you know, played
football and all kinds of stuff out there. Now,
Colonel Adams was band director when you got here.
Right. And did he go all through your years? No, Joe
Haney. Joe Haney? He came in before I got to Adams
for time. All right, and describe working with Joe
Haney. Oh, he was very cooperative. Colonel
Adams, I didn't have a fight. He'd just been there
longer than Ripley. And he was, you know, he didn't
mess with his band. And I didn't. He didn't argue a
whole lot about it. He just wanted to know why did I
want to change it from green to white. And I still
think it was a good move of him, but there was no big
problem. Fish drill team. It was here when you got
here. Had there been a fish drill team when you were
a cadet? No. I don't know when it came about. It
started when they were out at Bryanfield.
Bryanfield, that's right, as a matter of fact.
Bryanfield, of course, happened during my time.
But I never thought much about the fish drill team
when I came back. And I was pretty impressed with
the way they operated and the national champions
and this, that, and the other. And Maitland was
doing a good job with them. And I don't hold the
statement I'm going to make as maybe not the truth
or whatever, but I made a mistake turning over to
the Navy Marine program because Marines have a
different outlook on discipline, and I think
that's what happened. And the Army, when we were
running the drill team as far as supervision, I'm
sure a lot of that stuff still went on, but not near
as severely as it was. And I think that, like I said,
I have nothing but admiration for Marines having
gone into Incheon on the third wave behind the
Marines. I was very happy for the Marines, but I'm
afraid that's probably what happened to them. But
while you were commandant, were there some hazing
problems in the fish drill team? Well, I knew that
they were they were hassling the heck out of them up
during their drill period, but I don't know what
went on in the military area. There was probably
nothing there because they were scattered
throughout the court. But I know their training
was very disciplined. What were some, as far as you
were aware, while you were commandant, what were
some of the examples of the dormitory hazing and
pranks and jokes and all that? What were they
doing? Well, I'm pretty sure that there were
occasions when the board was used. I don't think it
was too often. I do know of one occasion when they
turned some chickens loose in a room over a spring
break and turned the heat up. I'd never heard of
that one before, but that was a disaster.
I know one morning,
Buck Henderson, who was on my staff then, had been
over in the core area and offered me a call. It was
before everybody was there. I don't know, 7
o'clock in the morning, something like that, and
said, Conner, get over to the dorm and live in right
now. Somebody just put saccharine in the commodes
in the dorm on the first stoop. And, of course, we
called maintenance people. By the time I got over
there, Buck and I cleaned that concrete out of them
toilets. before it set. I mean, we were digging in,
and that wasn't one of the, I don't guess you
normally do that, but we didn't want that stuff to
sit in there. We had a heck of a mess. Don't know who
did it to this date, but we got it out before it set
because of the still water. Drownouts? I'm sorry?
Were there drownouts? I just don't know why or who
did it or anything. No, no, no, but were there
drownouts going on Oh, oh, yes, yes, yes. I don't, I
never heard of them having those sticks that were
used to barricade, you know the name for them.
Yeah. Were the, were those not being used, or they
were? They were when I was a student, but not later
because they could lock their doors. Ah. We were
not allowed to lock doors. That's right, that's
right. And during your days as Commandant, were
they going down in the steam tunnels? Not to my
knowledge. That had been closed off? I never heard
of it. I never mentioned the tunnels either. Were
there ever any incidents in the dining hall that
you had to deal with? No, not really other than the
food throwing, but it wasn't near what it was. air
raids back as what they used to have in my day, and
they were pretty bad then. What about drinking in
the dorms? I'm sure it was there, but it wasn't
open. The problem was beer busts off campus
primarily. Where did they go for those? I guess
they went out to the old, on the other side of the
issue, where those to Quonset Huts where, that's
where we found the cannons. And I think I went out
there some, and I don't know whether they ever did
that with the cow there or not. I've never heard of
it going on out there, but I don't know. I just don't
know where they're hanging it from. And y'all
didn't have to worry about drugs, did you? No. I
don't even know if we had any or not. I don't think
there was. I just wasn't very sophisticated on
that until I got to Fort Carson. Were there girls
with, were there guys that brought girls into
their rooms? Was that a problem in the Corps then?
While you were commandant? It was not, it was
pretty rare. It did happen. I remember one
occasion that I was wandering through the
corridor in the morning four or five o'clock,
something like that, and there was a kid tied to a
flagpole, you know, in underwear and a mattress
cover and chained to it with a handcuff, asking
what outfit, and he told me. I said, I'll get you
loose. And so I went through this outfit and banged
on the door, and I'm in the uniform, and the door
pulls open, and this guy says, what the F do you
want? lights on and here's a full colonel standing
up here and there's a guy on his bed over there. So I
wanted that guy cut loose down there in two minutes
and I wanted to see him in my office at 7 a.m. in his
dress uniform and anyway he showed up and figured
he'd pack his bags and whatever and I just had a
follow son chat with him and told him They were
stupid and he was taking a chance for his whole life
and I'm not against what they were doing or
whatever, but that's not the time and the place.
And he's my friend to this day. Oh good. And I've
never mentioned his name and never will.
RVs. What role do the Ross Volunteers play? Well,
you know, they were disbanded during the war. And
they started them back, I believe, you probably
know this better than me, I think it was 47. And they
used to drill out there on the band drill field. And
I used to look out my dorm room window and say, look
at those idiots out there. I wasn't in an RV. And I
don't, you know, didn't really want to be one. for a
couple of reasons. One is I did have that job, and
secondly, I couldn't do much sense of going around
out there, and I couldn't afford a uniform. But I
did find out I'd been blackballed. And
later found out the reason is, and I don't
understand to this day why this guy objected, but I
was late dating my roommate's date.
So I imagine that had something to do with it. But
during your days as commandant, the RVs... I was
very impressed with them. They were quality
people. I never heard of any of them getting in real
serious trouble. And how does somebody become a
member of the Ross Volunteers? Well, of course,
they got to have good grades and what translates to
about a B average there was. You know, and the clean
record in the corral. But they have to be voted into
it, sort of like a lodge. And about how many members
are there? Goodness, I don't know, a hundred and
some odd. I don't know for sure. Juniors and
seniors? Juniors and seniors. I just don't know.
As far as you're aware, does it matter whether
they're Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine? No
difference. And they select their own commander.
And any junior or senior in the Corps is eligible,
including the Corps commander, and all of them can
be RVs. Right, if they meet the minimum grade
requirements. So the RVs would claim to be the
cream of the crop? They claim that, yeah. And they
probably are. I certainly know the ones I know that
were RVs and so forth. Those are more of them.
acquainted with the Corps of Staff, and they were
good kids. Did you ever have any problems with an RV
activity? No. During your years as Commandant,
who were the key people on your office staff? Well,
you know, I mentioned Don Johnson, and
were there some John Adams? Were there some
secretaries? Well, John Adams later stole my
secretary away from me and married her. Oh. So, you
know, he had been married previously and they were
divorced. And Sherry, who is his wife now, I don't
know if you know her or not, she's a lovely gal.
She's a senior secretary out at the vet college.
But he stole her away from the commandant. But we
had one lady there who answered the phone at the
receptionist, and she was there when I was a
student, so she was kind of hard to get along with.
But the cadets sometimes wanted to see me, and I
always told them, unless I got my door closed, you
know, you can call me, but that's what I'm here for,
you know. They didn't see me open the door any time.
But what was a, during the normal week, describe a
typical day for the commandant. What time did you
get up? What time did you get to the office? What did
you do? Well, again, I'm probably not your typical
person. I usually got to the office by 6 in the
morning because I'm an early riser and that's just
my habit from the military. And I'd sit around
there and go over the, whatever paperwork I had to
do and all that kind of stuff. And then people
started coming in 7.30, 8 o'clock, like that, and
started doing business. And usually some parents
would come in during the day wanting to talk about
the Corps and print on the schedule and spend a good
bit of time with them and walk around with them. And
I met with the Corps commander almost on a daily
basis. If he weren't there, the deputy would come
in and we'd talk about, you know, what's going on in
the Corps and any problems or something like that.
Usually, most of the time I'd stay for the evening
and pass by and wouldn't eat with him. I'd go home
about six o'clock. Where did you eat lunch
normally? I never ate lunch. Oh, you didn't? No.
Right. And so pass by, then would you go home? Go
home, yeah. How many, during a normal week, how
many nights were busy with campus business? Not
with the Corps, usually the nights, the nights
were busy with all these things that you got to show
up at, you know. It seemed like every night you had
to do something, and it really got to be a hassle.
And almost every weekend. Oh yeah, and it's never,
never any home time, and it's very bad for a family
with children. Not with even the wife, the wife
loved it. What were, what were you able to do to
relax? Well. Hobbies, fun? Of course, it's kind of
hard to say. I'd like to go to the football games and
such as that, but I'm still in a sense somewhat
duty, but I don't remember a whole lot of free time.
We used to go out to the country western place But
again, the kids were out there too. I used to like to
do that stuff. And
I don't remember any special activities we were
in. It seemed like everything was around the
university. Right. You served as Commandant from
71 to? 77. Seven. Six years. And that six years was
because it was time for you to retire officially?
Well, I was, I had another year I could have stayed
on active duty, but there was no way I could stay.
You know, normal tour is three years, extended to
four. And, you know, unknown to me, and I brought
the corps responsible for me staying. I don't know
if you know about the petition or not. The what? The
petition. No. This is a, and I didn't know this was
going on, believe me. But they didn't want me to
leave, and they found this thing here and gave it to
Dr. Williams.
These are all members of the Corps. Yes, that's the
only one. How marvelous. And this is dated 1970.
570. 75 and 76. The 100th anniversary. Therefore,
we, the undersigned members of sophomore and
junior classes, respectfully request you as our
president take steps to renew Colonel Parsons'
tour of duty to A&M for another year in order that he
might help us have a noteworthy centennial
observance of our school. How did you learn about
that? Dr. Williams called me to his office and laid
that on me and says,
what do you feel about this? And I said, well, Dr.
Williams, the Army is not going to let me stay. And
he says, how bad do you want it? I said, I'd love to.
He says, you understand you'll never be a general
if you stay. And I said, I'm probably not going to be
a general anyway. And I said, I've had the time of my
life. And I said, I'm willing to do it if it'll work.
And he said, I think we can work it out. Well,
General Otter, who was my army boss, came down
here, and we had a meeting in the president's
office. And General Ludeke also was there. And he
says, Parsons can't stay. We've got the guy picked
out that's going to be this guy. Dr. Williams said,
don't waste my time. Parsons is going to study, and
he's going to be the commandant. And General Honor
said, Marshall, we just can't do it then. I mean, we
won't allow it. And then Dr. Williams says, do you
know who Tiger Teague is? And anyway, he allowed
us. He'd heard of him. And Dr. Williams said, I'll
be in touch with Tiger Teague. Well, shortly
thereafter, I got a call that I was extended I was
not truly loved by my general. So that's how it
happened, and of course it went into two years, and
it was time for me to move on now. What do you
remember about that centennial year? Well, it was
damn busy going to things. I don't remember too
much, but just a lot of activities.
Corps was deeply involved in it, of course. And
during that year, Dr. Williams had his heart
attacks. Yes. Do you remember hearing about any
news about that? Well, of course, everybody was
concerned about it, but not much news.
I was primarily involved in it, and General
Simpson was running things and so on, but he was the
pipeline. I didn't, I used to see Dr. Williams
almost daily, but not during the Act of Assumption
game. And how did you feel when Dr. Williams is no
longer physically able to be the president? Well,
you know,
he was the president during my period, period. I
wouldn't under any others. Dr. Miller would not
come on the same. So I can't compare him to any
others. He was just, he was really logical and he
was very military oriented and student oriented
and I just, I just think he was a wonderful person.